= Conditional BuildStep Plugin for Jenkins

A buildstep wrapping any number of other buildsteps, controlling their
execution based on a defined condition.

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Info]]
== Info

This plugin requires the
https://plugins.jenkins.io/token-macro/[TokenMacro Plugin] and theÂ 
https://plugins.jenkins.io/run-condition/[Run Condition Plugin] to be installed!

* Ever wanted to have more control whether a step should be executed or
not?
* Want to reduce the number of jobs doing nearly the same thing?

Add a conditional buildstep which acts as a container. It will allow you
to define a condition controling the execution of the step(s).

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Conditions]]
== Conditions

There are multiple conditions one can choose of, these are all defined
by the
https://plugins.jenkins.io/run-condition/[Run
Condition Plugin]

Missing builder

If you're not able to add the builder of your choice within a
conditional build step (because it's not available within the dropdown),
then this is likely because the builder does not provide a
_@DataBoundConstructor_ constructor and/or the Descriptor does not
extend _hudson.tasks.BuildStepDescriptor_. For non programmers: the
plugin you would like to use does not yet follow the newest Jenkins
coding guidelines. Without this, the conditional buildstep plugin is not
able to work with it.

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Conditionalstep(single)]]
== Conditional step (single)

This build step allows you to select any build step and define a
condition to control whether the step should be executed. +
For reasons why you might want to use this step, see
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=59507542[Why
use Conditional step (single)?]

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/screen-capture-1.jpg[image]#

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Conditionalsteps(multiple)]]
== Conditional steps (multiple)

A 'Conditional steps (multiple)' container is able to contain any number
of any other buildsteps (e.g. Shell, Ant, Maven,...) and you can have
any number of 'Conditional Steps' containers, each configured with a
different condition.

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/screen-capture-2.jpg[image]#

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Examples]]
== Examples

Please check out the examples at the
https://plugins.jenkins.io/run-condition/[Run
Condition Plugin]

[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-Changelog]]
== Changelog
For recent versions, see https://github.com/jenkinsci/conditional-buildstep-plugin/releases[GitHub Releases]

For versions 1.3.6 and older, see CHANGELOG.adoc


[[ConditionalBuildStepPlugin-HelpandSupport]]
== Help and Support

For Help and support please use the
http://jenkins-ci.org/content/mailing-lists[Jenkins Users] mailing list
or the Issue tracker (JIRA).

Licensed under [MIT Licence].
